Hi, and welcome to the class on Residuals,
diagnostics, and variation.
Remember we started out
with our linear model.
We're also going to assume here through
out the lecture that our errors
are normally distribute.
Some of our results require that and
some of them don't.
Remember how we defined our residuals and
that our estimate of residual
variation is the sum of the squared,
the average of the squared residuals.
Where remember we divide
by n-p rather than n, for
an biasness sake.
So it's very easy in r to get
a plot of your residuals and
several plots that measure aspects
of model fit and lack of model fit.
So let's load up the data set swiss and
let's go ahead and fit the linear
model that includes all the terms and
the easy way to do that is to put
a period after the little tilde symbol.
So that, then it just includes
all the terms in the data frame
except the outcome of corps.
Then the generic command plot actually
will just plot the fit, it will plot and
co-create a series of residual and
diagnostic plots for you.
I did par ama for all equals two two so
that it all it on one page.
So in this class we're going to go over
what the basics of these plots are.
So to do that we need to
discuss influential points and
outlier points and
that there's a distinction.
So here I've created a plot where there's
a clear linear relationship between
most of the data between the predictor and
the response.
So there's these four points that I'd like
to discuss that are colored in orange.
The first point let's look
at the lower left hand one,
is right in the middle
of the cloud of data.
It doesn't really have much influence or
leverage, okay?
So, to describe more on what influence
means, or what leverage means,
let's look at this point that
is in the upper right most plot.
Remember that our data has to go
through the average of the y's and
the average of the axis.
In that sense we can think of the average,
the two averages as
a mid point of fulcrum and that the bar
namely the regression line has to move
through that fulcrum and you could think
just like a regular physical fulcrum,
as you move further out, right?
That point will have
more leverage just like,
I think it's probably
easier if I draw a picture.
Here's my fulcrum.
Here's my heavy weight right here,
let's say it's one ton.
Okay, if I need to lift up this weight,
if I push down right here on my bar,
it's going to be a lot harder,
than if I push down over there.
Well that is the same thing that
happens in regression models.
For if you have a bunch of data,
a datapoint that is,
here is the natural arrange of the axis,
a datapoint that's far outside of
the natural range of the axis.
This is would have high leverage.
A data point that's right in the middle
of the x's will have low leverage.
So the concept of leverage
is merely a concept
of how far away from the center
of the axis the data point is.
So influence on the other
hand is whether or
not that point chooses
to exert that leverage.
So this point that is far
along the regression line.
But still adheres very well
to the regression relationship that
would be observed if it was removed.
That point has high leverage but
it opts not to execute that leverage.
On the other hand look at
this lower right hand point.
If that point were included
in the regression line
we would probably a larger fact on it.
Why?
Because it's outside of the clouded
points and it also doesn't adhere to what
the rest of the date is saying now point
both has high leverage and high influence.
In this lecture we're going to go over
both the concepts of leverage and
the concepts of influence and
how you diagnose them using your data.
One final point to discuss is upper left
hand point that is right in the middle
of the cloud or the X values.
So it has low leverage.
However, it doesn't adhere
at all to the relationship.
So, this upper left hand point,
while being an outlier, is not going to
exert the same influence on the model that
this lower right hand point is going to.